
On 10/5/25 15:23, Alan Kay <snip> wrote:

 Hi David

I read your blog, and wondered what your goal might be.

STEPS was a project that didn't get done as originally planned (I was one of
the main culprits), but some very good work was done on parts of it, including
that by Dan Amelang. Overall, I consider it an unsuccessful project (close, but
no cigar).

One thing that I perhaps didn't make clear enough in the early STEPS writings
was that the heart of the project was to capture the *semantics* of "vanilla
personal computing of the day" in as compact a form as possible (the pragmatics
might require a supercomputer to run it, but that wasn't the point).

One big part was 2.5 D graphics -- but I worked with John Warnock at Utah and
later at Parc -- and everyone on that plane of thinking already used a
pseudo-compositional high level math for expressing the meanings -- and current
day languages and HW required lots of code to run it fast enough for practical
use.

I was interested in the much more compact expression of the semantics, and
looked around for people of similar interest. We luckily found Dan Amelang (and
his brother helped with some major parts on a summer project as well).

The initial versions of Gezeira ran surprisingly well, and this tempted me away
from the original goal, towards wanting to give demos and talks using it.
Similarly, with Frank. Things would have been better if I'd stayed true to my
original plan. However, I did give many talks using just Frank, and quite a few
of these are on YouTube.

Funding got more and more difficult to obtain and I also got older and older.
I'm now 85 and have had a stage 4 cancer for the last 4 years which science has
been holding back (and am living in London). I occasionally give talks,but
prefer to play music in my remaining time on the planet.

Very best wishes
Alan



    On Sunday, October 5, 2025 at 08:25:33 PM GMT+1, Daniel Taylor <snip>
wrote: 

 Hello Dr. Alan Kay.

I'm writing a small piece on my blog about Gezira, the rendering system
at that was developed at VPRI. I wanted to talk about the source code:
my thoughts and what parts I thought were interesting.

Here it is, if you're interested:
https://djtaylor.me/post/2025-09-30-gezira/ . It's still a work in
progress though.

As part of it I'm writing a short little section on the history of the
project.

Now I've seen you online criticizing people for half-assing their
research and getting things wrong about the projects you
were involved in. I don't want to make that mistake, so I'd like to ask a few
questions. These are things that I haven't been able to find online
anywhere. They may not all make it in; it's more for rounding out my
research.

1. An old version of the VPRI website says that you co-founded VPRI with
Dan Ingalls "and others". Who are those others?

2. Also, there were some big names on your board of directors! Were they
all actually participating in governing the nonprofit? Or were they
board members more in name only? Were you really reporting your UI
progress to Douglas Engelbart? Your Gezira progress to Ken Perlin?
Your... er... programming language translation work to Douglas Adams?

3. When exactly did you meet Dan Amelang? How did you meet? From your
talks you give the impression that you met him because of his work on
Cairo. But from the Cairo git repo, Dan was a contributor to Cairo for
about 4 months total. Did you meet in that time window?

4. The VPRI's public tax forms show that Dan Amelang was working 40
hours a week for many years, from 2013 to 2018. Changes to Gezira
stopped in 2012. The only other thing I know he worked on was Shadama,
which he demoed in 2017. What was he working on for VPRI during those
intervening years?

I'm not looking to overly pry. It's just that Dan Amelang is the main
character of Gezira, and I'd like to know what else he worked on at VPRI.

5. What happened to HARC? Why did it disband?

6. I've seen people online talking about struggling to get Frank
running. I for one have never found any Frank source code or binaries
anywhere (with the exception of this iPad build
https://tinlizzie.org/~bert/frank4ipad/). Was Frank ever released?

7. Possibly the most important question the set: what happened to the
mustache? When did you start rocking the mustache, and when did you
decide to start growing out your beard?

Thanks for taking the time to respond!
- Daniel
